Aku arep ngendhat.
Help.
Mom!
God's peace and blessings be upon you.
Hello, is this Ryan,
the son of Prasetyo?
I'm sorry, but…
- who is this?
- My name is Karsidi.
Your father passed away.
To God we belong, and to Him we return.
Can you… come here?
I'll send you the address.
There is…
something your father left for you.
Sir?
Hello?
- Mom.
- What's wrong?
Dad passed away.
How do you know?
A man just called me.
His name is Karsidi.
Do you know him?
I don't know any Karsidi.
Why don't you call him back?
Are you sure you heard right?
Yes.
Mr. Karsidi said
that Dad left me something.
Then the call got disconnected.
Should we… go there, Mom?
There's no need.
You know why, right?
Yes.
He gambled,
he cheated on you,
and you can't forgive him.
But he's still my father.
I'm just wondering.
It's been ten years since I last saw him...
There's no need.
Don't go there.
Just pray for him. That should be enough.
FORWARDED
Ryan.
Mom, I'm sorry.
I feel like I have to see Dad.
Ryan.
If we weren't related,
I wouldn't be here with you.
I'd rather go riding
with my motorcycle club.
I feel bad
for leaving without my mom's permission.
I know it's wrong.
But I left her a message,
so everything should be all right.
Sometimes it's okay to break the rules.
Ryan.
How far have you gone with Alana?
Watch your mouth.
- Did you do anything stupid?
- No.
Seriously, no.
Are you still with him?
No, I swear.
Just block his number.
Hello, Mom.
Yes.
Okay, hang on.
Ryan, my mom wants to talk.
Yes, ma'am?
Yes, we'll go straight home.
Okay, peace be upon you.
You have such a spoiled girlfriend.
My friend is anything but spoiled.
Don't act like you know her.
- And this one is fierce.
- That's enough.
Here, your phone…
What the hell, Ryan?
What's wrong?
No, nothing.
Let's just keep going.
It's nothing, let's go.
- Mr. Karsidi?
- Yes.
Ryan, Prasetyo's son.
Yes.
Sorry, our call got disconnected.
The reception here is bad.
Yes, it's fine, sir.
These are my friends, Elsa, Alana, Ben.
Your mother didn't come?
No, sir.
First of all, I'm sorry.
But we have buried your father.
How… did he die?
Your father hanged himself to death.
Be strong.
That is your father's grave.
PRASETYO SON OF SUKAMTO
MARCH 20, 1976 - AUGUST 1, 2024
Why is his tombstone black?
It's a sign that the deceased…
was a victim of pulung gantung.
I'm sorry, what?
What is pulung gantung?
Pulung gantung is a spiritual being.
A demon.
It takes the form of a fireball.
Two weeks before he died,
your father showed signs of stress.
He locked himself in.
He was targeted by pulung gantung.
Once pulung gantung set its target,
the target would live a miserable life,
and eventually,
he would hang himself to death.
You see that grave?
That's the grave of Nining, my sister.
She was also the victim of pulung gantung.
That's why her tombstone is black.
This is the key.
- Please.
- Yes, sir.
Were you very close with my father?
I worked with Mr. Prasetyo.
Sometimes I helped him
take care of his field.
If you need anything,
I live nearby. Over there.
All right, sir. Thank you.
Ryan.
Why don't we look for a hotel?
It's best to stay here.
There are no hotels nearby.
I'd better get going.
Yes, please, sir.
Ryan.
What did your father leave for you?
Mr. Karsidi just said
it's inside… a carved wooden box.
Let's go home once you find the box.
Worried about the pulung gantung story?
So, she's spoiled and a coward.
Let's go inside.
Well? Have you found it?
Not yet.
But it's been two hours.
I haven't found it, Ben.
Elsa.
I'm scared.
Why don't you come inside with me?
Can I just wait outside?
Will that be okay?
Okay, I'm not going to lock the door.
You wait there, okay?
Don't worry.
Make it quick.
I'll wait here.
- Alana.
- Elsa.
What's wrong?
Alana.
What did you see?
Alana?
Come on. Let's get out of here.
I want to go home now, Ryan.
But the thing is,
I haven't found the box yet.
Is that all you worry about, Ryan?
Don't you feel sorry for Alana?
She's never experienced
anything like this.
It's your call.
If you want to leave, let's go.
If you want to stay, fine.
But I don't want to drive.
Where are you going?
I… want to make out…
in the middle of this cold night.
Boom!
Weird.
You're burning up, Alana.
What should we do, Ryan?
I have some medicine in the car.
Wait here.
Hey, Ryan. Your mother called me.
I think she's worried about you.
You should call her.
I will.
Geez, what is that?
That's pulung gantung.
No, it's a meteor, Ryan.
Ben. Give this to Alana.
- She's your girlfriend, Ryan.
- Hurry!
Why are you following me?
You follow the meteor?
That's not a meteor.
That's pulung gantung.
Whatever. But, why?
Mr. Karsidi said that pulung gantung
is the cause of my dad's death. Right?
Yes.
This is my chance to prove it.
- Ben.
- Aku arep ngendhat.
Aku arep ngendhat.
Help. My wife needs help.
- Aku arep ngendhat.
- Ben.
Help! Honey.
Honey.
Wake up, honey.
Help.
Ryan, wait for me.
Lord have mercy.
Sir, I tried to help.
It's okay.
Is it true that she was possessed
by pulung gantung?
Yes.
Honey.
Why does it have to end like this, honey?
Why, honey?
Let's get her down.
What is happening?
It means the next victim
of pulung gantung will be from that area.
But we can't tell who.
In the name of God, the Most Gracious
and the Most Merciful.
Ya-Sin.
By the wise Qur'an.
Indeed you, Muhammad,
are among the messengers,
on a straight path.
The spirits of the pulung gantung victims
are still here,
venting their anger to those
who are still alive.
Because their lives
were taken before their time.
Excuse me, sir, but we have to go.
Please.
Hey.
Are you Prasetyo's son?
You have to leave!
Get out of here!
Go away!
What's their problem, Ryan?
Alana!
Alana. Oh, my God.
Ryan!
- Alana.
- Elsa, what's wrong with Alana?
- Elsa, what's wrong?
- I don't know, Ryan.
Alana.
- Pray, Alana.
- Alana.
Alana.
Dear Lord.
Aku arep ngendhat.
- Alana.
- Alana, stop!
- Stop it, Alana!
In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious
and the Most Merciful.
Alana.
- Wake up.
- Alana, wake up.
Let's lay her down.
OUTER RING ROAD - AIRPORT
JAGORAWI TOLL ROAD
Hello. Ryan, where have you been?
Why didn't you pick up my calls?
I'm sorry, Mom.
I'm so worried. Where are you now?
Mom, a lot of people died in this village
because they were possessed,
including Dad.
He hanged himself to death.
Are you okay, Ryan?
Yes, I'm fine, but Alana…
What's wrong?
Alana is not herself.
And she said, "Aku arep ngendhat."
Ryan, listen to me.
Just leave that village, now.
It means she wants to hang herself.
I'll explain to you later.
Just leave that village, now.
You know about pulung gantung?
Mom?
Hello, Ryan? Ryan?
Ben, hurry!
Ben, open the door.
Get in.
Hurry, Ben.
Okay, let's go.
Damn it.
- What's wrong?
- We've got flat tires.
Ryan.
What's wrong?
Flat tires, front and back.
Ben. There are knife marks.
Somebody must have pulled a prank on us.
You can't be sure about that.
Think. If it were a nail,
it would make sense.
But this is a knife.
Ben is right.
Somebody did this to us, Ryan.
No, we have to go home tonight.
- We can't...
- Yes, we have to go home tonight.
We have to find another car.
What about my car?
My dad needs it the day after tomorrow.
Ben, why don't you call your dad
and explain the situation here?
He'll understand.
I'm not going back home
before this car is fixed.
But if you insist,
go ahead and leave me behind.
Ben.
If I were you,
I would worry about the car.
Don't you feel like
the people here are weird?
Weird how?
From the way they look at you,
it's like they're angry, annoyed,
it's like you did something wrong.
What did I do?
Maybe it's just in my head.
I'll go and fix the tires.
Typical Ben.
Drinking in secret.
I'll go and tell Ryan.
He's going to be mad if he finds out.
Well then, stop it.
What about the tires?
I've changed it.
Not the one at the back.
No. There's only one spare tire.
SUICIDE IN GUNUNG KIDUL
I think it's this village.
Ben. Look at this.
What is it?
This is crazy.
Kidul Village has the highest number
of hanging cases in the last five years.
They were all caused
by pulung gantung, Ben.
This village is bad news.
Okay, I'll go look for a tire repairman.
Alana.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
I saw…
someone came towards Alana.
What do you mean?
Alana.
- Alana.
Put it down!
- No!
- Put it down, Alana.
Alana!
Stop it, Alana.
- Alana.
Alana!
Alana.
Alana, wake up. This is me, Ryan.
Alana, what are you going to do?
Alana, get down, don't jump.
Ben, help me!
Cut the rope, Ben.
All right. Hang on, Ryan.
Ben.
Come on, Ben.
Done, Ryan.
Get down.
Wake up, Alana.
Come on, Alana.
Alana.
Alana has never experienced
something like…
- Mom.
- Alana.
Aunt Marlina.
How's Alana?
- She just hanged herself.
- Come here, lay her down.
Come. Easy.
Do you have a white piece of paper?
Alana.
Exhale three times, dear.
Come on.
Alana is still possessed
by pulung gantung.
Now, I need you to take Alana
to the bedroom.
What are you going to do?
Get some jujube leaves.
Let's go.
In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious
and the Most Merciful.
Elsa, please.
So, you know about
pulung gantung in this village?
Since you were a kid,
pulung gantung has been around
in Kidul Village,
but I never wanted to tell you about it.
Alana.
If you have…
something that's bothering your mind,
or something that makes you restless,
you can tell me. It's okay.
I…
did it with my ex-boyfriend
until I got pregnant, Elsa.
Did…
Ferdy?
Of course.
Before Ryan came into my life,
I've only been with Ferdy.
I asked him to take responsibility,
but he broke up with me.
Before the fetus was a month old,
I had an abortion.
Does Ryan know?
No.
That's what bothers me everyday.
I love Ryan so much.
I'm sorry.
Why did you lie to me?
Not all girls are brave enough
to be honest about that, Ryan.
You thought I'd turn my back on you?
- Is that so?
- No.
I'm just scared that you're not ready
to see the bad side of me.
I love you so much.
I'm sorry.
But now, everything is up to you.
Alana.
Ryan.
Beg for God's forgiveness, Alana.
Alana.
Lord, have mercy.
Say it, Alana.
- Get the rope.
- Lord, have mercy.
Alana.
Ryan, take her to the barn.
Hurry!
I seek refuge with Allah.
Pray.
Pray, Alana.
Ask for God's mercy, Alana.
Leave her!
Stop torturing her!
Aunt Marlina?
I'm Nyi Darsih,
your protector.
Pulung gantung…
can attack the people you love.
Don't be a big mouth!
I know who you are,
the demon Banaspati.
I know what you do.
You mislead people
and you make them miserable.
This is none of your business.
Stay out of this.
Get back, you old witch!
Or do you want to be
burned along with your body?
Even if you have
a thousand demons behind you,
I will not back down.
You don't know who I am.
You mess with humans,
you mess with me!
Make a barrier of yellow bamboo.
Put her in the middle.
Ben.
Dig Ki Sangkut's grave
and get his sacred ring.
Where is Ki Sangkut buried?
In Blarong Cave,
in the south forest. It's far from here.
- What is she trying to do?
- Let's just listen first, Ben.
Put that ring on this woman's finger.
We need Ki Sangkut's ring.
Who is Ki Sangkut?
He was a black magic shaman.
He controlled all the spirits here.
But he died five years ago
because he forgot to sacrifice
12 wild boars
every Kliwon Friday.
Thanks for telling us.
The forbidden forest is dangerous.
There are a lot of spirits there.
Ben, what time is it?
Good. Let's go there now.
How do you know about the ring?
They won't be able to get
Ki Sangkut's ring.
Although you trap me here,
his followers
are still going to answer to me…
- do whatever I say.
- Don't believe her.
She's just trying to scare us.
Can I have a drink?
Hurry up and drink. We have to move fast.
Ben!
Ryan!
Ryan.
My dad, Ryan.
No.
Remember, don't look…
if you hear anything in the forest.
- That's impossible.
- My dad, Ryan.
Where are you going?
What are you going to do there?
Come home with me.
That's my dad, Ryan.
Ben, don't. Ben.
Ghost!
Ben!
Find the corpse
of the black stone whisperer.
Dig the grave… with bloodied hands.
Ben.
Are you okay?
This forest is the home of demons, Ryan!
Okay, we have to be quick.
We have five hours left.
- Come on.
- Let's go.
Aunt Marlina.
I hope Ryan and Ben can make it.
Nyi Darsih has been playing with you.
That ring is destroyed.
Don't listen to her.
Pulung gantung has possessed
Alana's mind and body.
That is not Alana that we see.
Pull out the stick, Elsa!
Aunt Marlina.
Aunt Marlina, help!
No, Elsa!
Don't pull it out, Elsa!
Elsa, stop! Don't!
No!
Elsa, don't!
Ben.
Blarong Cave.
What are we waiting for?
Come on.
This is nuts.
This must be the grave of Ki Sangkut.
No.
I don't think so.
I think the grave is still far inside.
A ghost!
- You're good?
- I'm good.
This way. Let's go, Ben.
Let's go.
Ryan.
Is that the grave?
Yes, come on.
Where is the hoe?
- Are you sure it's this one?
- Yes.
Come on.
- This is rock, not soil.
- Oh, no.
Wait, Ben.
Listen to me.
I saw a human skull,
and it gave me a clue.
- Are you being serious?
- Yes.
Okay.
We have to make our hands bleed.
- This is unbelievable.
- Yes, we dig with our hands.
- With our hands?
- Yes.
This is ridiculous, Ryan.
- I swear, this is ridiculous.
- All right, that's fine.
You don't want to do it. I will.
Don't do anything crazy, Ryan.
- Don't…
- Give me that!
Bear with the pain.
Come on.
Okay.
It's done.
One, two, three.
- Take this, Ryan.
- Yes.
The ring.
Come on, Ryan.
Hurry, Ryan.
God, it's so hard.
He's awake!
- He's awake. Hurry, Ryan.
- Ben.
I'll smack him with the hoe.
I'll smack him!
Hurry!
Have you pulled out the ring, Ben?
- Have you, Ben?
- Hang on, Ryan!
- The corpse is awake.
I got it. Come on!
- Watch out. Be careful.
- Yes.
Ben, we have to hurry.
We only have three hours.
- Yes.
- Come on, Ben.
Yes, Ryan.
I'm sorry.
I had to knock you out.
Aunt Marlina.
Aunt Marlina, I'm sorry.
I didn't know what I was doing.
- I'm sorry, Aunt Marlina.
- Yes.
- No.
Marlina.
My name is Karsidi.
You were the one who called my son?
That's right.
Do you know that Ryan and his friend
are looking for Ki Sangkut's ring?
And it's very dangerous.
Please find Ryan and Ben.
The villagers and I will search.
Excuse me.
My pet demon is here.
Let's get up, Aunt Marlina.
Easy, Aunt Marlina.
Hang on, Aunt Marlina.
I'm sorry, Aunt Marlina.
I really didn't know.
I didn't know it was going to be like this.
- Hurry, Ben.
- Come on.
Are you okay?
Let me help you.
Thank you.
That's the call to prayer.
You should go and pray.
All right, Aunt Marlina.
God is the greatest.
Ben, the trace…
Ben?
Ben.
Ben!
Alana.
- Alana.
- Elsa.
Elsa, help me.
Elsa, help me. My chest hurts.
I'm feverish. Help.
Alana.
I will not leave until this woman
hangs herself to death.
Alana.
Let me use your hands.
It hurts when I touch that bamboo.
No!
Pull them out one by one.
Is your house still far?
You won't be able to leave this place.
Grab that rock and hit your head with it!
Hit it harder!
Ben!
Ben.
Don't be like this!
What are you doing, Ben?
Hit him!
Ben!
- Hit him!
- In the name of Allah,
- the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.
- Hit him!
Ben.
Ben, wake up.
I'm sorry, Ryan.
I really didn't know.
It's okay, Ben.
You were under the influence
of that demon.
I understand.
Mr. Karsidi.
Your mother asked me
and some of the villagers
to look for you.
Well?
Did you get the ring from Ki Sangkut?
- Yes.
- Can I see it?
Sure.
Yes, he got it.
All right, then. I'm going to see Alana.
Sure.
Ben.
What is going on here?
Hold him!
Don't try anything stupid.
You're coming with me,
or I'm going to kill your friend.
Sir, please. I'm running out of time.
I have to see Alana.
Ben!
Come with me.
I will not hesitate to kill you.
Move.
Keep going.
It must be excruciating for you, Alana.
You have to survive.
That demon can't keep
putting you in misery.
35 SUICIDES IN KIDUL TO DATE
Pulung gantung is a spirit
with virtually endless power.
No one knows how to stop it.
However, there's an assumption…
that the one who can stop pulung gantung
is the one who started it.
Get in.
- Get inside!
- No.
Dad.
This is…
the only keepsake that I have.
Ten years… is a long time.
Now…
you're all grown up, son.
What's wrong? Are you confused?
Is that so?
So, whose grave is that?
No one's.
It's an empty grave.
Make sure they do it well.
- After that, you call…
- Your father passed away.
After you call, turn off the phone.
Can you… come here?
- Hello?
- Hello, sir?
Give him the location.
That's it. Done. Don't forget.
Where is it?
Did you get Ki Sangkut's ring?
Ryan.
Give the ring to your father.
Where is the ring?
Ryan.
Hey.
This is the ring that can save
the Kidul villagers…
from the curse of pulung gantung.
With this ring,
I have to stop the misery
and the suffering of the villagers.
Honey.
Let's go.
Why are you just sitting there?
Marlina. I told you.
That's sacred land.
We can't plant anything there.
- We can get into trouble.
- Like I care.
You have to stop believing
in superstition.
That land was given to us.
Don't you remember? We've had
zero income in the last three months.
Think about your son.
The whole village could be in trouble.
Look.
What did I say?
It really happened, right?
It's all because of you.
It's just superstition.
You are so stubborn.
Wait, you go ahead.
I forgot something.
Take Ryan with you.
Let's go.
Prasetyo!
- Get out!
- What's going on?
- Come out here.
- What is it?
I told you, right? That's sacred land.
Sacred land. It's not for planting crops.
I inherited that land.
What's wrong with that?
You're so stubborn. Because of you,
a lot of villagers were possessed.
Do you understand?
That's not my problem.
Marlina, help.
Marlina.
Everyone, stop!
Leave now!
Let me handle it.
Prasetyo, and all of you…
have known me long enough, right?
Yes, Ki Sangkut.
I can stop pulung gantung
with my sacred ring.
Ki Sangkut kept his word.
The curse stopped.
Unfortunately, Ki Sangkut died.
The ring was buried along with him.
And…
pulung gantung
has been running amok since.
I tried digging up his grave.
But I always failed.
Only someone
born on a Kliwon on the 23rd
in the month of Suro
is able to dig up the grave of Ki Sangkut.
And that person is you.
So all of this was bait?
Is that it?
Because I was the chosen one?
Yes!
If I had told you…
that I wanted to see you,
your mother wouldn't have allowed it.
But, yeah…
Dad, I need that ring. Now.
This ring is going to stay on my hand.
Please understand my situation.
- She's my girlfriend.
- You're the one who should understand.
This ring stays here.
Ryan.
Damn it.
Ryan!
- Elsa.
- Ben.
Where is Ryan?
I don't know, Elsa.
You're unbelievable, Ben.
Don't you get it?
Alana's fate depends on that ring, Ben.
Do you think it was easy to get that ring?
While you were enjoying yourself here,
Ryan and I…
Ryan and I had to face scary ghosts,
I was beaten badly.
Me, enjoying myself?
I…
I almost killed Ryan's mom, Ben.
Are you insane?
- Luckily, Mr. Karsidi was here.
- Ben.
Where's Ryan?
Did you get the ring?
Oh, God.
Look where you're going!
Don't you have eyes?
- I'm sorry.
- How dare you! Don't leave me like this!
When night falls,
the barrier can no longer be used.
Alana.
Stop, you evil thing!
Show me what you've got!
Alana!
Don't kill my friend!
- Don't kill my friend!
- Alana.
Alana!
- Get down, Alana!
- Alana!
Alana.
Get back.
Alana, wake up.
Wake up, Alana.
Wake up!
- Mom.
- Aunt Marlina.
Aunt Marlina.
The soul of your friend…
is held up in the supernatural realm
where pulung gantung rules.
Put Ki Sangkut's ring on her finger.
Remember…
she only has two hours.
- Aunt Marlina.
- Mom.
Alana.
- Hurry, Ryan.
- Yes.
Yes.
It's me, Marlina.
You.
Return the ring!
Shut up!
Did your son tell you everything?
Yes.
And you managed
to lure Ryan into coming here.
You started it.
You caused everything.
Traitor!
And whatever happens,
I would sacrifice my life for my son.
Give me the ring!
Dad.
Alana still has a chance to live.
So, please. Give us the ring back.
- Shut up!
- Prasetyo!
Chase him, Ryan!
Dad!
Well?
- Are we going to the south forest?
- Yes.
We have to stop pulung gantung.
And what are you going to do
with that ring?
I won't waste it.
This sacred ring of Ki Sangkut
can control spirits, ghosts and demons.
And I'll be as powerful as Ki Sangkut.
Do you know the consequences?
You don't need to teach me, Karsidi.
I know.
They're not here, Ben.
Where did he go?
Apparently, my son doesn't easily give up.
Let's go now.
Hang on a second.
I'm going to call upon
those who are lifeless.
Okay. Let's just go back.
That…
Damn it!
- Ryan!
- Ben!
Let's just go!
Help!
Dad, please.
Alana's life is still in danger.
Please, Uncle. Lend the ring to us.
We'll save Alana's life.
And we'll return the ring back to you.
Once you put it on,
you may never take it off.
Do not interfere!
Damn you!
Let go of it!
Let go of the ring, you old man!
I'm sorry, Dad.
Let's go back.
Let's go, Ben!
Hurry!
Ryan!
You have to come back.
You… have to come back, Alana.
Elsa.
Elsa, where are you?
Please.
Come back, Alana.
Mom, this is the ring.
The ring.
Alana.
Alana, wake up.
Wake up, Alana.
Alana.
Wake up, Alana. Wake up.
Indeed, we belong to Allah…
and indeed, to Him we return.
Wake up, Alana.
Alana, wake up.
Alana.
Are you okay?
Ryan.
Thank God.
Ryan!
Give me the ring. Now.
Not in your wildest dreams.
Yes, you were friends with Ki Sangkut,
but you can never be
as powerful as he was.
Marlina.
You made me who I am now.
Yes, I'm selfish,
but I'm not as stupid as you.
- Damn you!
- Aunt Marlina!
Ben.
Pull over.
Do not kill yourselves.
Allah is, without a doubt,
most merciful to you.
But, sir.
People in Kidul Village
commit suicide after being possessed
by pulung gantung.
What do you have to say about them?
Suicide is a very big sin.
It's only done by people with weak faith.
It's so easy for the devil to take them
down the wrong path.
Ryan, just accept it.
Accept your father's death.
Let it go.
Peace be upon you, Mom.
WHOEVER KILLS HIMSELF
IN A WAY THAT EXISTS IN THIS WORLD,
SURELY ON THE DAY OF RESURRECTION
ALLAH WILL TORTURE HIM IN THE SAME WAY.
HADITH BY BUKHARI AND MUSLIM
Uncle, I found this.